>> Kevin Powell: For
the second page we're gonna be doing,
it's a separate course page.
So if you've been following along so far
in the first course page, at the last one,
the very last page in that first course
page, there's the link to get to part two.
It's also the exact same URL, just change
the number one in the URL to the number
two, and it will go to the part two.
For this second part, we're going
to be doing a few different things,
we're gonna have a little bit
more interaction on this one.
But a big part of it is also going to be
seeing how we put a lot of work in that
first part.
It took a long time before we really
had the styles that were coming in,
and then the pieces sort of
fell together pretty quickly.
And part of it will be when we start doing
page two, we'll see that, I can reuse
a lot of what we've already done, and the
page should come together a lot faster.
But then we also have to talk about
project maintenance a little bit because
we're gonna have some new things
that we need to add to it.
So how do we deal with a growing project,
where there's new things being added?
That whole idea of reusing things that
already exist versus being able to
use things or have to build new things and
finding that balance once again.
Some of the newer, cool, fun, things
we'll explore too are view transitions.
We're gonna look at single page and
cross document view transitions,
talk about the idea of
progressive enhancements, and
we'll also touch on some theming and
customizations near the end.
And how you can do more with this project
or turn it into something else completely.
So when we're dealing with vanilla HTML,
the easiest thing to do when you need a
new page is to just take your first page,
copy it, paste it, and rename the file.
The reason I like doing this, I'm gonna
call my mushroom guide, mushroom guide,
dot HTML.
The reason I like doing it that way is
just because I don't wanna forget anything
along the way.
And if I try and copy,
paste pieces from one page to the other,
I invariably forget something along the
way, and then I start being frustrated.
So we wanna make sure we
have that JavaScript file,
we wanna make sure we have the link to
the Google fonts, to our style sheet.
We wanna make sure our
navigation is exactly the same,
there's a lot of pieces
that are identical.
So we can just do a quick copy-paste,
and then you just have to go through and
find the parts that are different.
In this case, don't delete things that are
the same, so our navigation is the same.
And the hero section is the same,
it's just the content that's changing.
So don't delete the hero section,
we can leave that hero section there, and
we'll change the content after.
But our other sections are all different,
so
I can come down and
find all of the ones down to my footer.
And I go slowly when I do this and try not
to zoom too fast just cuz I might catch
something along the way
that I actually wanna keep.
We can go through and delete all of those.
Now, I'm gonna move this off to the side
cuz I wanna look at my Figma design at
the same time while I'm
doing this next part.
So I have an idea of what
I'm trying to create.
And again, when I'm doing the HTML, I
always like looking at the desktop one cuz
that's where I see what the structure of
the page is actually going to look like.
So the hero, as I said, is already done,
we'll quickly change the content
in that in a little bit.
And then after my hero,
we're gonna have a section here, and
I'm gonna put some comments.
So here would be our
where to look section.
When we had our sections,
we always had a class of section on there,
so we can add that right away.
And the padding looks like it's the larger
padding, so I'll leave that the same.
In there, we need our two columns,
or actually, the first thing,
we need the wrapper, so
I can put my wrapper.
I need the two columns, so
I can do the equal-columns.
I'm using them a little bit here,
I'm just doing dot, writing out the class,
and then pushing tab.
You can also push return, and
it gives you the div with the class on it.
But in this case, once again, we want it
to be centered, and we want the wider gap.
At this stage, we've actually
made this class of equal-columns,
where one use case of it was
sort of the default setup.
And then how we're doing it here,
and we used it over and over again,
had the wider gap and
had the vertical center.
So you might be like, well, more often,
this is what the default is.
Maybe you come up with a different
modifier using or a simpler way to do
this, but I'm just used to workng this
way and I find it my favour way to do it.
So we can come right on there right
away and add those .attributes, or
if you did modifier classes, you use
the modifier classes that you created.
So we had data-allignment = centered,
and data-gap is,
I think we called it large.
Somebody can correct me if
I used a different name.
I'm not gonna bring the content in
right away, but I'll just come here and
we can do div and another div just so
we have space to bring our two columns in.
And then with prettier,
it formats it for me.
So we can be messy when
we're writing our HTML, and
we can see the structure come in.
If you'd rather bring the content
in right away, you definitely can.
I'll bring in the tags, just like I
did when we were doing the first part.
And then so I'll put my image tag here,
and later, we'll come through and
actually bring in the image just so
we can focus on the content.
h2 was a class of section-title and
then we needed three paragraphs.
If you haven't used Emmett before,
if you do a p*3 or
a p star 3 and hit Tab,
it will give you three paragraphs.
So we can speed you up a little
bit with things like that.
Next up, we have the guide, and
we have to think about a little
bit how we're gonna do the guide.
But I'm not gonna stress
about it too much,
we can come here,
section with a class of section.
And then in there, once again,
we need the wrapper,
it looks like the regular wrapper so
we can just put our wrapper.
Then I need to sort of decide,
well, we do the easy wins first, so
we don't even have to make a decision.
We can do an h2 class = section-title.
Under that, we have those two filters.
I'm just gonna use some select for
those, and we'll talk a bit about that,
because their selects have some
limited styling you can do on them.
But they'll get the job done,
so we'll use those for today.
And then here,
I need to create the whole thing.
I wouldn't suggest doing all of the cards
at once and then coming through and
copying and pasting, and I'll explain
what I mean by that in a minute.
But I think what I'm gonna do for
now is I'm gonna need some sort of way
to organize this, so I'll put a div.
I'll put a comment here to say cuz
we're gonna talk about it a bit later.
We'll call this the grid of mushrooms
that we're going to be doing.
And then I don't really know,
we have 12 cards here, and
we'll come back to that and
figure that out.
If you have an idea of how you'd
already wanna do that, by all means,
you can go for it.
But I think the easier thing is,
actually, once we get to creating these,
we'll create one and then copy and
paste it, and then change the content
through them as we go through those ones.
And then we have this frequently
asked questions down here, so FAQ.
We do a section, class = section.
In this case, it has the dark background,
I think I forgot the green background up
higher, but we could do the background
color on this one as well.
So this would be background-extra-dark.
That's also a section,
I'll turn off word wrap for now,
even though I tend to leave it on most
of the time, but there's the section.
Inside the section, we need the wrapper.
In this case,
it's the wider version of it.
So we had data-width = wide for
our wider wrappers.
And then in here, we, once again,
need to figure something out on
how we're gonna do this section.
For this section, the columns, I think,
maybe they're not equal now that I'm
looking at it, but
they're more or less equal.
So you could come in with the
equal-columns, and then you could build on
top of that to sort of create this bento
grid that we're going to be doing,
and it would probably work.
But because we have to do so
much customization to have this
different type of layout coming in here,
I don't like reusing something
that's a bit more generic.
Just because I find then you're building
on top of it and then, I don't know,
I just sort of have two different
things that are working together.
I just like going with something
completely custom if it needs to look
completely different like this one does.
So we'll worry about this after, actually,
this one's a little bit simpler.
And another piece of advice actually here,
this is where I like to look at
what the mobile layout's doing.
Because I wanna see if I look at these
cards, they look at this here, but
it's hard to know what order
they should actually be in.
I know I need four different divs,
but I don't know which one goes first,
second, third.
Is it one, two, three, four,
one, two, three, four?
Can be hard to tell.
And then even sometimes the order
of other things changes.
So I know I need that complex layout,
but then I can go and I can look at
my mobile now, or the mobile version,
and I can get a better idea of
what the actual order of them are.
And at this stage, I see that it's
always an image, always a title,
and then always
the paragraph at the bottom.
So this is the simpler, or this is
sort of the basic version of it, and
then we're gonna fancy up
the layout as it gets bigger.
So we can just do a class of card for
these ones.
We'll build these ones out cuz they're
easier than the other ones we'll be doing.
Each one of these cards has a title, and
we already created that,
it'd be an h3 with a class.
I'll make it full screen so
it's less rappy, class of card__title.
Actually, it was the image at the top,
wasn't it?
We can bring in an image, the class title,
and then a paragraph underneath there.
Then we only have four of those, so it's
in this part, it's probably easy enough,
two, three, four, and
then you get the four cards coming in.
So let's go back to seeing what we
actually have on the page, and go and
look at our actual page.
We have to get to there, for now,
I'm gonna write it up here just so
I can actually see what we have.
So it was our mushroom-guide.html in
my URL, and I can come take a look,
I see I have two broken selects,
I have these cards that are here.
Obviously, things don't look fantastic,
but this is, I guess,
the fun part of just going through and
getting the actual content on the page.
Whether you're using the markdown
files that were provided, or
just grabbing it directly
from the Figma files,
however you prefer working, but
we want to bring everything in.
Some of these sections, like the hero,
as I mentioned, are already done.
So those ones,
it's just about updating the content.
So in this case, we had the quick
reference that goes right there.
No, whoops, I'm in the wrong spot, I'm in
my navigation, go down a little lower.
There we go,
quick reference mushroom guide.
>> Kevin Powell: The three
paragraphs are different,
I'm just gonna go through this as
you're all going through it, and
I'll talk a little bit, but this is sort
of the boring part of bringing in content.
And one of the drawbacks of vanilla
HTML [LAUGH] and just having to copy,
paste lots of stuff, but
it's part of the job a lot of the time.
Where to look, bring that in,
that was right here, copy, paste.
I always do my paragraphs separately and
then copy, paste into them.
I used to bring text in and then try and
wrap it all, but I found that was a lot
longer and harder for me to do,
so I've been doing it this way.
The source for this image, assets,
look, I think it's that one.
Once again, on your images, don't
forget to include meaningful alt text.
So a white mushroom with
a large cap growing
on the forest floor, let's do that.
While we're here, I'm looking at it and
you noticed we have a green background,
and I mentioned, I forgot to put the green
background a little bit earlier.
So on my section here,
I can also do my background accent.
And I deleted the section class,
so I'll add that back in,
and I can just double-check
to see how it's looking.
>> Kevin Powell: My
background is now working.
>> Kevin Powell: Section is working,
background-accent.
There we go, I was missing
a space between the two of them.
So that's coming in,
let's go look back here.
The text is the larger size once again,
and
is white instead of being that off white.
So if I look here, I could put this
in a lot of different places, but
we have the div here.
Don't forget we need to reintroduce flow,
so
at this, whoops, div-class= flow.
And on this one,
I'm also gonna say font-size-lg and
text-high-contrast, just so.
Now, if I come take a look,
we get the larger font size and
the white text coming on.
And one thing that's important with
this is it's not impacting the look of
the section-titles because we're
relying on inheritance here.
So when I'm making these changes to
the high contrast text and all of that,
it's going to inherit into anything
that doesn't have any styling on there.
So the paragraphs are just inheriting the
styles because the h2 has specific class
on there that's styling it specifically.
It's not gonna alter the font size or
the color or
anything like that, so
that comes in perfectly fine.
If we keep on going, get to know
your mushrooms, we can grab that,
section right there,
get to know your mushrooms.
We have our selects, so for the selects,
there's a few different
things that we need in here.
Well, they're all gonna be options.
So for each one of them,
you do need to include the value
as well as what we see here.
So we can do Season: all is my first one,
let's shrink this down.
Again, word wrap is kind of annoying,
so I have the option, Season: all,
season all is what
the user is going to see.
We're gonna talk more about the selects
after as well to make them a little bit
improved upon.
But the value here is gonna
be really important for
actually creating the filter, so
we can just say all right there.
We can duplicate that line and
then just do
a spring,
>> Kevin Powell: Summer,
>> Kevin Powell: Fall and Spring,
summer fall, I would always
do the value with lowercase,
it just makes life easier in the long run.
>> Kevin Powell: And
then we need the other second select.
Actually, on the first one,
you don't have to cuz the first
one will be selected by default.
But on the first one,
you can also indicate that that one is
the selected option from the get-go.
But if you don't do one,
it'll always be the first one.
For the second one, we have edible, or
sorry, it'll be all once again, and
then so here we can say Type: all.
>> Kevin Powell: Option, edible is Edible,
and then we can do our last
option of toxic and Toxic.
For these, you could do true false here,
if you wanted to as well, but
I just found it easier once we get to the
other side and actually make this work.
Using the same word for me was
a little bit more straightforward, but
if you'd prefer true and
false there, you could do that.
It'd just mean when you write
the JavaScript later on,
it'd be a little bit different, but
if that makes more sense to you.
Again, I'm gonna skip over these quickly,
we'll come back to those in
a minute when we get to that part.
And I'll just bring this content in
cuz this content is a little bit more
straightforward.
So each one of these has the image,
assets, and then start.
I tried to do the names to
be easy enough to find for
the images,
a basket full of wild mushrooms.
>> Kevin Powell: The title, we can grab.
>> Kevin Powell: Bring in the paragraph.
>> Kevin Powell: And I think that was one,
two, we'll go look actually again
at the smaller design just so
we get the right order of these.
So that's the first one,
second one is this one.
>> Kevin Powell: Again, if you're grabbing
it, I was just double-clicking a lot,
that will drill you down in Figma,
but you can also control click if you
are grabbing it from the Figma file.
Or if you're getting it from the markdown,
obviously, you're fine.
How, whoops, assets,
identify probably, there we go.
And then the alt text here, a mushroom
on top of a book showing the information
about that mushroom, I guess.
That's not the best alt text in the world,
we're going quickly here
[LAUGH]
>> Kevin Powell: Yeah,
there we go, grab that.
You don't wanna do that, and
assets/where-to-find, and
a mushroom covered in leaves,
or a mushroom with a red cap,
poking out from a pile of leaves,
probably a little bit better.
And last but not least,
we get down to this one and
source assets, and then what seasons?
best-seasons, alt A red capped
mushroom with white dots on it,
growing out of a lots of forest floors,
my alt text today, and
grab that text right there.
>> Kevin Powell: And we don't have our
sortable grid done yet, but if we come
take a look, I close my DevTools and we'll
go full screen just to take a quick look.
We should have the main part done,
that looks okay, we need to come and
fix this up, obviously.
And we need a layout here, but
at least all the content is in place,
and we'll be able to
style that section out.
So with that all done, we're ready to
start working on this page a bit more and
getting that grid of cards put together.